[Percy] We need to go to Santa Monica.
My father's gonna meet me there.
He's gonna help us.
[Ares] Your quest is going to fail.
- That's my cousin?
- Ares.
Whether the bolt's retrieved or not,
Zeus is going to war with Poseidon.
We're completing this quest.
We're stopping this war.
The chair is the bargain.
One of us goes in,
the other gets the shield.
[Annabeth]
I'm not leaving here without my friend.
Eat or be eaten.
Power and glory and nothing else matters!
He isn't that way.
He's better than that!
[Ares] In a few hours, this thing
is gonna be at the Lotus Casino in Vegas.
Hermes hangs out there.
You play your cards right,
and his personal driver
can get you to L.A. in minutes.
I think I got it out of him.
I know who stole the master bolt.
[thunder rumbling]
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
[Headmaster] Do you think you're special,
Lightning Thief?
Do you think you cannot be replaced?
I gave you the tools
to steal the master bolt,
only to watch it taken from you.
That mistake has been corrected.
But there is too much at stake
for you to fail me again.
The war ahead of us.
The war beyond Zeus and Poseidon's war.
Give me reason
to question your worthiness again,
and there is another
that just might be ready
to take your place.
[♪ music continues]
Isn't that right, little hero?
Not time for us to meet quite yet.
Run along now.
And show me what you are capable of.
[♪ music intensifies, concludes]
- [animals clamoring]
- [metal creaking]
[animals squeaking and growling]
Does that help?
[sighs] Guess we're about to find out.
Can you see where we are?
We're almost there.
[ethereal ringing]
There. I've got a signal.
Toss it, Seaweed Brain.
[♪ mystical instrumental music playing]
Okay. This will never stop being weird.
If you want the gods' attention,
you have to pay for it.
Oh, Iris, Goddess of the Rainbow,
please accept my offering.
Okay, show me Camp Half-Blood.
Chiron's office.
Luke?
[echoing] Annabeth? Percy! Are you okay?
Yeah, w-- we're fine.
Where's Chiron?
Chiron's holding camp together
with both hands.
Everyone thinks we're going to war,
so the cabins are taking sides.
Please tell me
you're calling with good news.
We know who stole the bolt.
How do you know?
We ran into Ares,
and Grover got him talking
and realized Ares knew who the thief was
but was covering for them.
- So, who would Ares cover for other than...
- [Luke] His favorite daughter.
Clarisse is the lightning thief.
Chiron's gotta arrest her,
find out what she knows.
There's more to this than just the bolt,
something bigger.
Don't ask me how I know,
you just gotta trust me.
Okay, I'm on it.
So, Ares, huh? What was that like?
Well...
compared to the Chimera on Monday
and Medusa on Sunday,
could have been a lot worse.
Medusa was Saturday.
I thought Sunday.
No monsters on Sunday.
Monday, you died in the river.
- Right. So, Medusa on Saturday.
- Guys, what is this?
- What?
When did you turn into
an old married couple?
Not to change the subject,
but I'm gonna.
We could use your advice on something.
We're headed to Las Vegas
to find your dad--
[animals clamoring]
What was that about?
You can't ask Luke about his dad.
Well, now I certainly can't.
If you tell him we're going to see Hermes,
he's gonna try to talk us out of it.
We don't need that right now.
[♪ gentle instrumental music playing]
They don't get along?
[sighs]
At all.
Okay, got some updates.
The men driving this truck
are not nice people.
Traffickers.
We can do our best
to help all these animals escape,
but not if it means
we're jeopardizing the quest.
Oh, no, no, no. They've already got a plan
to get themselves out.
And us, too.
I mean, some of these guys,
so smart.
They were really only missing,
like, one piece of the puzzle
to get the cages unlocked.
What's that?
Thumbs.
But we're here now, so... all good.
And once the cages are open,
they have a plan from there?
Yeah. Really elegant.
I mean, these guys, they're...
they're like artists.
[animals growling]
- [horns honking]
- [people shouting]
This seems dangerous.
Oh. They'll be totally fine.
I gave them a Satyr's blessing,
so they'll be able to reach
- the wilderness safely.
- I meant for the people.
- [horns continue honking]
- [animals growling]
[Grover] Oh...
- Them.
- [indistinct shouting]
Well, I mean, I'm sure they'll...
Yeah, I don't know.
But the animals are all set.
- Okay, come on, before the cops show up.
- [police siren blaring in distance]
So, how do we know
which hotel is the Lotus?
I'm guessing the one
with the giant lotus blossom on it.
You were like two seconds ahead of me.
Seriously.
Sometimes, it might be okay
to just let the easy ones go.
- Can we agree to just try it, maybe?
- [rollercoaster riders screaming]
[♪ energetic pop song playing,
Dua Lipa "Levitating"]
♪ If you wanna run away with me
I know a galaxy ♪
♪ And I can take you for a ride ♪
♪ I had a premonition
that we fell into a rhythm ♪
♪ Where the music don't stop for life ♪
♪ Glitter in the sky, glitter in my eyes
shining just the way I like ♪
♪ If you're feeling like you need
a little bit of company ♪
♪ You met me at the perfect time ♪
I know we're supposed to be
saving the world,
but would it be unprofessional
if we just hung out here for a bit?
We find Hermes,
we get him to hook us up
with a ride to Los Angeles
and a plan to get into the Underworld,
- and we are out of here ten seconds later.
- I was kidding.
Wait, hang on.
What?
Your mom told you all the stories.
Did she read you the Odyssey?
The graphic novel.
[♪ song continues]
It counts.
Odysseus lands on a beach.
There's these guys who've forgotten
where they came from,
forgot everything
that was important to them,
- and they got that way because they ate--
- The lotus flowers.
If we go in there
and then forget everything,
that would be bad on a number of levels.
But if Hermes is in there, though,
then what choice do we have?
What do you think, Wise Girl?
Just don't eat anything.
Wait, why were you looking at me
when you said that?
[♪ song concludes]
- [gambling machines chiming]
- [people cheering]
This place is a lot bigger
than it looked from the outside.
He could be anywhere.
[Annabeth] Let's split up.
[Percy]
I thought we didn't do that anymore.
Also, you guys have seen him before,
but I haven't.
So I'm not gonna be much help alone.
Go check that side of the floor.
I'll take Percy this way.
One way or the other,
we meet back in the lobby in 20 minutes.
- [coins clinking]
- [gambling machines chiming]
- What do I say to him if I find him first?
- Nothing.
Meet me here and you'll take me to him.
Yeah. Of course.
What are you gonna say
to Hermes that Grover can't?
[♪ energetic new wave music playing,
A Flock of Seagulls "I Ran"]
I was with Luke for a long time
before Grover found us.
I saw stuff Grover didn't get to see.
Like meeting Luke's dad?
Like meeting his mom.
She's a seer.
A human who can see through the Mist.
Sometimes, they see stuff
that messes them up.
Scary stuff.
Stuff that hasn't happened yet.
Stuff they know is gonna happen.
I think it happened to her
and Luke blames Hermes for it.
And I think Hermes would do anything
to win him back.
Maybe helping us is a start.
♪ I just ran ♪
♪ I ran all night and day ♪
♪ I couldn't get away ♪
Wait!
[♪ song continues]
Augustus...
Wait!
Augustus, it's me.
It's Grover.
Do you remember me?
Oh.
No, you don't remember me.
You ate the lotus flowers.
Listen, can I just say a couple of things?
You were really important to my family.
And I know you were a big influence
on my Uncle Ferdinand.
When he was preparing for his search,
he talked about you.
All the time.
- Ferdinand.
- Yeah.
I just wanted to let you know I found him.
Back in New Jersey.
That was as far as he got
on his search for Pan.
I don't really know
why I'm telling you this.
Guess it's just hard
to talk to my friends about it.
- I don't know if they can understand--
- I found him.
No, I found Ferdinand. It's okay,
I shouldn't be bothering you, it's--
[Augustus] No. Not Ferdinand.
I found Pan.
- What?
- Almost. He's-- He's here.
I've almost... g-- got him.
Grover, I've just been waiting for--
for someone to--
to help me break through to him.
[pants] And here you are.
Will you help me?
[Percy] Look...
if I tell you something,
do you promise not to make fun of me?
- Dude.
- Right.
- [gamblers cheering]
- Okay.
So, I've been having these dreams.
For a while, they were weird.
Then, like Luke's mom, they got scary.
- You have these too, right?
- Of course.
And then this guy started showing up
and talking to me.
But not like in a regular dream.
It's more like he knows we're in a dream.
But today, it was different.
Like I somehow ended up in his dream.
Like I was eavesdropping on him
talking to...
Talking to who?
To the person
who stole the master bolt for him.
[♪ eerie instrumental music playing]
You're eavesdropping on Hades
conspiring with Clarisse
through your dreams?
The part I don't get, though, is that
they were talking about what comes next.
Like getting Zeus and Poseidon to fight
was only the beginning,
and they're planning something bigger
on top of it.
So, do you think it's real?
Because if it's real,
something the gods don't even know about,
I mean...
what are we supposed to do about that?
- [sighs] I don't know.
- You don't know?
There are things I don't know.
[Percy]
Yeah, but if you don't know, I mean,
what chance do I have?
[sighs] Well...
it isn't gonna make any difference,
unless we actually
get to Santa Monica first.
- We don't have much time.
- [gamblers cheering]
Come on.
Wait. Wait, wait. I don't think I can--
I don't think I'm allowed to do this.
I don't have my Searcher's license
to look for Pan.
[gambling machines beeping]
I won't tell if you won't.
This may be a stupid question,
but what is Pan doing in a Vegas casino?
It's just a little further ahead.
The god of nature has been hiding
all this time, here?
This is like the least natural place
in the world.
It seems like a strange choice.
- [Augustus crunching]
- Augustus?
- I'm sorry, have we met?
- [Grover] Yeah, w--
Yeah, we met.
Would you like some?
I can't eat the lotus flowers, Augustus.
They're nacho chips. Would you like some?
I don't... understand.
If you're not eating the flowers,
then why are you forgetting things?
[laughter, indistinct chatter]
[♪ ominous instrumental music playing]
What's happening here?
I gotta tell my...
I gotta...
[♪ music intensifies]
Wait, I was here with...
someone, wasn't I?
You're here with me.
[♪ music becomes eerie]
What was I just saying?
It's just a little further ahead.
Will you help me?
Yeah.
[♪ music crescendos, concludes]
- [gamblers cheering]
- [♪ energetic guitar music playing]
[man] So, a big wave comes
and washes the boy back onto the beach.
So the lady falls to her knees.
She looks up at the sky, and she says...
"He's wearing a hat!"
[group laughs]
Hey, demigods! Welcome!
[croupier] Place your bets,
ladies and gentlemen.
We were sent to find you.
Well, you found me.
Come join us.
You kids know how to play craps?
Look, we don't really have a lot of time.
We need your help to--
I know what you need my help for.
You want my help
to sneak into the Underworld.
Wow.
You're a really good guesser.
I exist beyond space and time, kid.
Why do you think they put me in charge
of delivering the mail?
Look, you're not the first demigods
to ask and, trust me,
you won't be the first demigods
to walk away disappointed.
So you might as well
at least play a little--
We're friends of Luke's.
[♪ stirring instrumental music playing]
Yeah.
Okay.
Time and space are easy, kids.
Parenting is...
[sighs] ...something else entirely.
Have a seat.
[♪ piano playing in distance]
I remember you.
You were there.
Last time I saw Luke.
Yes.
I saw you argue.
I heard what he said.
That what happened to his mom
was your fault.
That it was all your fault.
That he hated you.
Help us get to the Underworld.
Help us retrieve Zeus's master bolt
from Hades,
and he'll see that you care.
[♪ suspenseful instrumental music playing]
There is a way into the Underworld.
A secret way.
I've helped others find it before.
And do you know what happens every time?
I mean, every single time.
You don't want my help.
No, we actually kind of do.
I was warned to stay away
from Luke and his mother.
Warned that no matter how much I tried
to help,
I would just make things worse.
And I went anyway.
And it wasn't just awful for Luke.
It was awful for all of us.
Do you know what that feels like?
To be so close to someone you love,
knowing neither of you has any choice
but to keep hurting each other?
I know you do.
[♪ music intensifies]
Should I remind you, too?
I remember just fine.
Are you gonna help us or not?
I don't get involved anymore.
It's just not worth it. I'm sorry.
[♪ pensive instrumental music playing]
Then this was all just a waste of time.
And we don't have time to waste.
She's right to be angry.
It isn't fair. None of it is.
Thanks.
That's super helpful.
It was your father who warned me
to stay away.
Said it was awful watching you struggle
and feel powerless to stop it.
But that sometimes...
that's what parenting is.
I was supposed to see him.
He said he'd meet me in Santa Monica.
Why would he say that
if he thinks it'll make things worse?
[sighs]
It is... very hard for a god
to feel powerless.
I guess we're all just doing
the best we can.
Makes you feel any better,
it won't be much use now anyway.
What's that supposed to mean?
[♪ music becomes suspenseful]
[woman] Hey!
[♪ dramatic instrumental music playing]
We have a huge problem.
I know it seems like
we've only been here for like 20 minutes,
but it's already Thursday.
We've been here for days.
Time moves differently here. Faster.
Every second in here
is like minutes outside.
Hermes let us sit at that table
the whole time,
knowing the clock was running out
on our quest.
Yes.
Then I feel a lot better
about having stolen his keys.
Exactly.
Wait, what?
[Annabeth]
Got invisible. Picked his pocket.
You picked Hermes's pocket?
I'm multi-talented.
Now, all we have to do is find his car
and it'll instantly transport us
anywhere we wanna go.
We still have time to finish this quest
before the solstice, if we hurry.
Hermes told me something else.
The reason we can't feel time passing
is because of the lotus fruit.
- We didn't eat any lotus fruit.
- They pump it into the air.
It makes you forget.
Hermes reminded me there was something
we needed to do before we could leave.
- Grover.
- Who's Grover?
Grover.
I remember Grover.
Man, Grover got really old.
How long have we been here?
Hey!
We're looking for our friend, a satyr.
Have you seen him?
[Percy] Where is he?
Wait!
[♪ music intensifies]
[woman cries out]
[gamblers screaming]
Hey!
[Augustus groans]
Where is Grover?
- [video game sound effects]
- [excited chatter]
[♪ whimsical instrumental music playing]
[Percy] Grover?
Grover.
[bell ringing in the background]
I was so close.
I know, I hate it
when someone does that to me.
And I can't believe
I'm the one saying this,
but it's really time to go.
Of course.
Where are we going?
[♪ music becomes tense]
You don't know who we are, do you?
Yeah. No, I don't. Have we met?
Percy. Annabeth. We're your best friends.
- Really?
- Oh, boy.
Grover, we're on a quest.
We can't do this without you.
We're short on time,
and we gotta go. Right now.
A quest? That sounds amazing!
But is it dangerous?
It's not a deal-breaker, I'm just curious.
Also, I'm sorry, what was your name again?
[♪ music intensifies, concludes]
[Percy] Okay, god of travelers.
What kind of car
does the god of travelers have?
Guys, I gotta say,
so far, this quest is really exciting.
Really hoping we find that car.
Finding the car isn't the quest.
There's more?
Jeez.
We'll explain it to you on the way.
We're in a bit of a hurry.
- We're late?
- Very, very late.
Are we late because of me?
[♪ soft instrumental music playing]
It's okay.
We're gonna be okay.
[sighs] Although, I hope
that game you were playing was amazing.
I was hunting for Pan.
Sounds great.
No, I mean, like I actually felt
I was about to find him.
That-- That I'd be the first.
That I'd help save the natural world.
It just felt so real.
[Annabeth] Guys!
[Percy] Hermes drives a cab?
[Annabeth] And left us a note.
How do we know that's for us?
Nice.
Should've known the god of thieves
noticed his pocket getting picked.
Back door to the Underworld, magic word,
map in the glove box.
And he says we'll become travelers
once we're on the road.
And then the car will take us
wherever we wish to go.
So, one of us just has to drive it
out of the garage.
Oh, I'm still not 100% sure
what we're doing here,
- which seems disqualifying.
- Yeah.
Yeah, sure, I mean...
I killed the Minotaur on my first try, right?
How hard could this be?
- [tires screeching]
- [car crashing]
[♪ adventurous instrumental music playing]
My fault. That was me.
How do you make it go backwards?
[engine revving]
You're doing great.
Maybe try aiming for the middle.
- [engine revving]
- [tires squealing]
- [Grover grunts]
- Look, you're welcome to give this a try.
[tires screeching]
- [car horn blaring]
- [tires screeching]
That guy didn't even slow down!
[car horn honks]
[Annabeth] Okay. Keep going.
Up to the street.
- [engine revving]
- [tires squealing]
[brakes squealing]
It's okay. You've got this.
[♪ music intensifies]
[♪ music becomes triumphant]
- [car scraping wall]
- [light bulbs shattering]
[♪ suspenseful music playing]
[gasps]
[yells]
- [truck horn honking]
- [brakes screeching]
- [Annabeth shouts]
- [tires screeching]
- [panting]
- [rain pattering]
Where are we?
Turn off the lights.
[thunder rumbling]
Percy, Annabeth, wait. You...
You guys are my best friends.
[♪ tender instrumental music playing]
Little weird that I forgot
a lot more stuff than you guys did.
Wonder what that's about.
We weren't alone.
It's easy to forget what's important
when you're alone.
[thunder rumbling]
I think I gotta go meet my dad now.
We'll be here when you get back.
What do I say to him?
You'll know.
[♪ music becomes dramatic]
[water echoing]
[♪ ethereal instrumental music playing]
I'm sorry.
He waited as long as he could.
The summer solstice
passed earlier this evening.
Zeus's deadline has elapsed.
Your father has gone to marshal his forces
and prepare for war.
He asked that I relay a message.
This is not your fault.
You were brave.
You were strong.
You made your father proud.
Now, it is time for you to return to camp.
[♪ music concludes]
No.
[♪ wistful instrumental music playing]
I'm going to see this through.
You are released from your quest.
I don't care.
This is too important.
The war is only the beginning
of Hades's plan.
There's something else coming.
Something worse.
My father doesn't know about this,
does he?
I have to stop him.
I have to keep going.
If you can help, then you must help.
So willful.
Just like him.
There is so much of him in you.
We all see it.
What belongs to the sea,
can always return.
[♪ music swells]
[Nereid] Each will provide one of you
safe passage back from the Underworld.
There are four of them.
Save the world...
and then go save your mother.
[♪ music intensifies]
[♪ music concludes]
[♪ adventurous theme music playing]
[♪ theme music continues]
[Cerberus snarling]
[Percy] After we get the bolt,
you guys are leaving.
With my mom.
[Grover] What about you?
What about you?
- [sword rings]
- [Percy] Hold fast, Mom.
[♪ theme music continues]
[♪ theme music concludes]